India Has Highest Global Covid Recoveries, Overtakes US: Health Ministry
A record 95,885 people recovered from the coronavirus in the last 24 hours as India's total case count breached 53 lakh mark with 93,337 new infections today, the Health Ministry data shows.
All IndiaReported by Sukirti Dwivedi, Edited by Nandini GuptaUpdated: September 19, 2020 12:34 pm IST
India Has Highest Global Covid Recoveries, Overtakes US: Health Ministry
Globally, India is the second worst-hit country by Covid pandemic with more than 53 lakh cases. (File)




New Delhi: India has overtaken the United States of America to record the highest COVID-19 recoveries in the world, the Health Ministry tweeted as 95,885 people recovered from coronavirus in the last 24 hours, the latest government data shows. With 93,337 new infections, India's Covid tally breached the 53-lakh mark, of which more than 42 lakh people had recovered from the disease.
Globally, India is the second worst-hit country by the pandemic and accounts for almost 17 per cent of all cases in the world. 

The Ministry of Health credited the country's high recovery rate (79.28 per cent) - the highest in the world - to the Central government-led "focused, calibrated, responsive and effective measures of early identification through high and aggressive testing, prompt surveillance and tracking coupled with standardised high quality clinical care have together resulted in this global achievement".

#IndiaFightsCorona

India overtakes #USA and becomes No.1 in terms of global #COVID19 RECOVERIES.

TOTAL RECOVERIES cross 42 lakh.https://t.co/sJf1AS4zBg@PMOIndia@drharshvardhan@AshwiniKChoubey@PIB_India@DDNewslive@airnewsalerts@COVIDNewsByMIB@CovidIndiaSeva@ICMRDELHI

— Ministry of Health (@MoHFW_INDIA) September 19, 2020
Today's record number of Covid recoveries comes in the backdrop of India reporting the highest number of new coronavirus cases in the world - an average of 90,000 cases per day - since the beginning of September.

In September till now, the country has recorded 16,86,769 new cases of coronavirus and its positivity rate has increased to 10.58 per cent from 7.5 per cent in mid-July.

PromotedListen to the latest songs, only on JioSaavn.com

Even though India's daily cases are among the highest in the world, the caseload, when compared with the population, is "among the lowest", the central government had said earlier. Deaths in India have been relatively low, and it has a fatality rate of 1.61 per cent, the latest inclusions from the 8 AM bulletin of the Health Ministry show.

Globally, more than 3.06 crore people have contracted the coronavirus since its outbreak in China's Wuhan last year, according to news agency AFP.